
# 2025年全球最具价值品牌500强报告（英）

## Global
## 500
## 2025
The annual report on the world's most valuable and strongest brands

## Apple is the
## 2025 most valuable
## brand in the world;
## TikTok, DraftKings,
## and FanDuel brand
## values are the
## highest-growing
## since 2020
+ $574.5 billion: Apple’s brand value, up 11% from 2024
+ 98%: NVIDIA’s brand value growth as the AI giant
breaks into the top 10 most valuable brands
+ Big brands outpace global economic growth:
the world’s 500 most valuable brands grow 10%
in value to $9.5 trillion in 2025, far exceeding global
economic growth of 3%

## Contents
## Foreword 5
David Haigh, Chairman & CEO, Brand Finance
Global Market Overview 6
Valuation Analysis 9
Most Valuable Brand: Apple 14
Fastest Growing Brand Value: e& 15
Brand Strength Analysis 16
Sustainability Analysis 19
## Brand Spotlights 21
## ADNOC 22
Alexander Richmond Burnett, CCO, ADNOC
## DBS 25
Karen Ngui, Managing Director and Head, DBS Foundation
and DBS Group Strategic Marketing and Communications
## Infosys 28
Sumit Virmani, CMO, Infosys
## Starbucks 31
Laurence Newell, Managing Director, Brand Finance Americas
## stc 34
Faisal Almalki, Brand Management GM, stc
## X 37
Florina Cormack-Loyd, Communications Director,
North America, Brand Finance Canada
## Insights 39
Bridging the Gap Between Marketing and Finance: 40
Making the Case for Brand Investment
Mike Rocha, Chief Commercial Officer, Brand Finance
The Brand Value of Major American Online
Gambling Brands: A Transformational Era
Henry Farr, Valuation Director, Brand Finance
Brand Value Ranking (USDm) 48
## Methodology 58
## Our Services 64
© 2025 All rights reserved. Brand Finance Plc.
Brand Finance Global 500 2025 brandirectory.com/global 3

## About
## Brand Finance
Bridging the gap between
Marketing and Finance
Brand Finance was set up in 1996 with the
aim of 'bridging the gap between marketing
and finance'. For
more than 25 years, we
have helped companies and organisations
of all types to connect their brands to the
bottom line.
## Quantifying the
financial value of brands
We put thousands of the world’s biggest
brands to the test every year. Ranking
brands across all sectors and countries,
we publish over 100 reports annually.
## Unique combination
## of expertise
Our teams have experience across a wide range of disciplines
from marketing and market research, leading brand
to brand strategy and visual identity,
to tax and accounting.
## valuation
## consultancy
## Priding ourselves
on technical credibility
Brand Finance, a chartered accountancy
firm regulated by the Institute of Chartered
For business enquiries, please contact:
Accountants in England and Wales, is the
first brand valuation
consultancy to join the
International Valuation
Standards Council. For media enquiries, please contact:
Our experts crafted standards (ISO 10668
press@brandfinance.com
and ISO 20671) and our methodology,
certified by Austrian Standards, is officially
approved by the Marketing Accountability +44 207 389 9400
Standards Board. www.brandfinance.com

## Foreword
The 19th edition of the Brand Finance Global 500 report emerges against the backdrop
of profound geopolitical, economic, and technological transformations reshaping the
global market.
In 2024, more voters than in any other year in history headed to the polls to vote in more
than 60 significant elections around the world. The resulting ripples are expected to shift
how markets and businesses operate – already, there are signals of political instability,
threats to democracy, and a retreat from globalisation. The possible departure from
free and open trade systems, marked by the risk of higher tariffs and protectionist
policies, underscores the urgent need for brands to adapt and innovate in increasingly
fragmented markets.
Markets in different regions face uneven growth trajectories, a divergence that highlights
the urgency for brands to invest in strength by reassessing their strategies, fostering
agility, and navigating challenges with clarity and confidence. While both the U.S. and
China remain the countries with the most brands in the 500 most valuable for 2025, both
countries post a slight decline in how many brands make the ranking. American brands
make up 194 of the top 500, compared to 203 brands in 2024, and 67 of the Global 500
2025 brands are Chinese, a slight decline from 72 last year.
Artificial intelligence (AI) moving from niche innovation to mainstream utility represents
another pivotal moment for brands. Now that AI is integrated into companies and
individuals’ daily lives, it is transforming how businesses engage with customers,
optimise operations, and measure success. It is critical for brand leaders to balance
understanding the implications of AI while harnessing its potential to remain competitive.
Amid these broader trends, the enduring power of a strong brand remains a constant.
Brand Finance research continues to find that a well-managed brand delivers measurable
value, enabling organisations to differentiate themselves in competitive markets, attract
loyal customers, and command price premiums. Moreover, strong brands are valuable
beyond attracting and retaining customers: strong brands drive talent acquisition, bolster
investor confidence, and build resilience in uncertain times.
Brand Finance has deepened its investment in understanding customer perceptions like
never before. This year, the Brand Strength Index has evolved to include metrics based
on familiarity and perceptions of both functional credibility and emotional appeal versus
competitors. This updated model is designed to be predictive of growth, capturing the
drivers of value such as increased demand, higher willingness to pay, and stronger
customer advocacy. The insights gathered from 175,000 respondents across 41 sectors
and 31 countries in this year’s Global 500 report highlight the importance of these factors
in shaping the world’s strongest and most valuable brands.
A persistent challenge is the assumption that Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) are
opposed to investing in brand, but we believe this is a misconception. Ambitious CFOs
understand that a strong brand supports business success but are reluctant to allocate
resources toward long-term brand-building without data supporting this approach, often
resulting in a prioritisation of short-term performance marketing. The findings from this
year’s report underscore the importance of data in aligning the priorities of corporate
leaders. Brand valuation empowers CFOs to invest in brand with confidence, resulting
in business decisions focused on growing and enduring brand value and strength.
Whether you are aiming to strengthen your brand or quantify its contribution to your
business’s success, the Brand Finance team is here to support you with brand valuations
that align marketing and finance to accelerate growth. We invite you to explore the
insights within this report and collaborate with us in shaping a more profitable and
sustainable future for your brand.
