
# 2025五大创想：5个驱动增长的伟大驱动力（英）-ARKINVEST-2025

## Table Of Contents
## Scaling
Introduction Convergence AI Agents Bitcoin Stablecoins Blockchains
## 04 05 15 29 41 54
## Autonomous Reusable
Robotaxis Logistics Energy Robotics Rockets Multiomics
68 84 93 103 114 125

## BIG IDEAS 2025
Unlocking Exponential
As we stand on the cusp of a new era of unprecedented growth,
ARK Invest’s “Big Ideas 2025” illuminates the complex
## Growth Through
convergences between and among the five technologically
enabled innovation platforms evolving today: Artificial
Disruptive Innovation Intelligence, Robotics, Energy Storage, Public Blockchains, and
Multiomic Sequencing. These platforms should drive exponential
advances across industries and catalyze a step change in global
## economic growth.
Presented in this year’s report are 11 Big Ideas illustrating the
massive transformations occurring today. Our research suggests
that these Big Ideas are poised to boost productivity dramatically,
to revolutionize industries, and to create long-term investment
## opportunities.
Join our journey into the future of innovation and its profound
implications for investors, businesses, and society at large.
Welcome to ARK’s Big Ideas 2025.
## 4

## The Second
## Half Of The
## Chessboard
## Convergence Among
Technology Platforms Leading
To Significant Acceleration In
Macroeconomic Growth
## Brett Winton
## CHIEF FUTURIST
## 5

## ARK’S Big Ideas 2025: Convergence
Five Innovation Platforms Are Catalyzing Accelerated Growth
## Multiomics
## AI
## Public Blockchains
The cost to gather, sequence, and understand
Computational systems and software that evolve with
digital biological data is falling precipitously.
data can solve intractable problems, automate knowledge
will likely migrate onto Public Blockchains that
Multiomic Technologies provide research scientists,
work, and accelerate technology’s integration into every
enableand verifydigital scarcityand proof of
therapeutic organizations, and health platforms
economic sector. The adoption of Neural Networks should
ownership. The financial ecosystem is likely to
with unprecedented access to DNA, RNA, protein,
prove more momentous than electrification and
and digital health data. Cancer care should
potentially create tens of trillion dollars of value. At scale,
transform with pan-cancer blood tests. Fed by rich
these systems will require unprecedented computational
multiomic data and powered by Programmable
resources, and AI-specific compute hardware should
Biology, AI systems running autonomous labs
collapse the costs of contract execution. In such a
operate AI models. The potential for end-users is clear: a
world, Digital Wallets will become increasingly
development, and trial, transforming returns in a
necessary as more assets become money-like and
sector that has stagnated. Biological discoveries
permeate people's lives, changing the way that they spend,
should power novel Precision Therapies that target
corporations and consumers adapt to the new
work, and play. The adoption of artificial intelligence
financial infrastructure. Corporate structures may
and cure rare diseases and chronic conditions,
be called into question.
unlocking profound economics. Over time, the
catalyze every innovation platform.
design and synthesis of novel biological constructs
will yield advances in agriculture, material science,
## Energy Storage
and even computation.
The declining costs of Advanced Battery Technology should cause an
explosionin form factors, enabling Autonomous Mobility systems that
collapse the cost of transportation.Electric drivetrain cost declines
should unlock micro-mobility and aerial systems, including flying taxis,
should unlock micro-mobility and aerial systems, including flying taxis,
enabling business models that transform cities. Autonomy should reduce
enabling business models that transform cities. Autonomy should reduce
the cost of taxi, delivery, and surveillance by an order of magnitude,
the cost of taxi, delivery, and surveillance by an order of magnitude,
enabling frictionless transport that will increase the velocity of e-
enabling frictionless transport that will increase the velocity of e-
commerce and make individual car ownership the exception rather than
commerce and make individual car ownership the exception rather than
the rule. These innovations combined with large-scale stationary batteries
the rule. These innovations combined with large-scale stationary batteries
and Distributed Energy Generation, notably solar and small-scale fission,
and Distributed Energy Generation, notably solar and small-scale fission,
should cause a transformation in energy, substituting electricity for liquid
should cause a transformation in energy, substituting electricity for liquid
fuel and increasing system-wide resilience, reliability, and production.
fuel and increasing system-wide resilience, reliability, and production.
The world’s fastest robots, Reusable Rockets, should
The world’s fastest robots, Reusable Rockets, should
continue to reduce the cost of launching satellite constellations and enable
continue to reduce the cost of launching satellite constellations and enable
uninterruptible connectivity and earth observation. A nascent innovation
uninterruptible connectivity and earth observation. A nascent innovation
platform, robotics could collapse the cost of transporting across distance, with
platform, robotics could collapse the cost of transporting across distance, with
hypersonic travel, the cost of manufacturing complexity with 3D printers, and
hypersonic travel, the cost of manufacturing complexity with 3D printers, and
the cost of physical work with AI-guided robots.
the cost of physical work with AI-guided robots.
Source: ARK Investment Management LLC, 2025. This ARK analysis draws on a range of external data sources as of December 31, 2024, which may be provided