
# 《国家地理杂志》2025年4月刊

## VOLUME 247 APRIL 2025 NUMBER 04
PRESENTING OUR INAUGURAL COLLECTION of VISIONARY CHANGEMAKERS WHO ARE STRIVING to MAKE THE WORLD a BETTER PLACE

## Featuring
- The MOGUL Donating His Fortune to Save the Planet
- The ASTRONAUT Pointing Us Toward the Moon
- The TV STAR Speaking Out for Mental Health
- The ENTREPRENEUR Offering Refugees a Fresh Start
- The ACTOR Reimagining Conservation
- The DESIGNER Making Sustainability Fashionable
- The SNOWBOARDER Fighting for Our Winters

## FROM the EDITOR
NATHAN LUMP
AT NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC we are have a positive impact on our planet always actively engaged in examining and its inhabitants. and better understanding our world. So Why 33, you ask? Well, back in 1888, often we are exhilarated and inspired the National Geographic Society was by its wonder and promise, but—at founded by 33 American men who saw a desperate need for more knowledge of the world, more widely distributed— and that mission has been at the heart of what we do ever since. Fittingly, in 2025, we have assembled a more diverse group of 33 people who hail from all over the globe. Their 21st-century goals are broader, but we see an important connection with our 19th-century founders: a shared belief that a better world is indeed possible, if only we endeavor to make it so.

## IN FOCUS
JUST IN FROM OUR PHOTOGRAPHERS
## ENVIRONMENT
“This image captures for me like no other the CREEPING MOVEMENT of the mines, extending over many years and swallowing up everything that’s in their way.”
DANIEL CHATARD, photographer
Activists walk along the edge of an open-pit coal mine near Lützerath, Germany. The village was later demolished to make way for the mine’s expansion.

## ANIMALS
“Photographing insects is a gamble because YOU NEVER KNOW if they are going to fly away while you’re setting up the shot. Fortunately, this damselfly was very cooperative.”
BENJAMIN SALB, photographer
To create a crisp, clear portrait of the tiny bug, Salb used a technique called focus stacking, combining multiple photographs to make one detailed image.

## CULTURE
“When I’m working, occasionally an UNEXPECTED ARTISTIC DIMENSION emerges, like this well-synchronized ballet of workers, which almost renders invisible their exhausting reality.”
NICOLAS MONNOT, photographer
In Bangladesh, manufacturing sites powered by massive kilns, similar to this one in the Dhaka suburbs, produce more than 20 billion bricks each year.

## THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC 33
We’re pleased to present a new project that celebrates extraordinary people striving to make the world a better place. The National Geographic 33 honors the visionaries, icons, creators, and adventurers who are searching for solutions to the planet’s most pressing challenges—and inspiring us all to action.

## UNRAVELING THE SURVIVORS FROM MYSTERIES OF THE CONGO THE DINOSAUR AGE
Suddenly, the world is paying more attention to Africa’s Congo Basin, a long-overlooked and understudied ecosystem playing a critical role in the urgent effort to slow climate change. We take a closer look at the fight to protect these living fossils.

## COULD THIS REALLY BE HAWAII’S HOLY GRAIL? PRECIOUS SNAILS COLLECTIVE FLIGHT
At a cathedral in Spain, a venerated chalice is celebrated as the legendary cup of Christ. Experts are taking electrifying steps to save Hawaii’s native snails swirls, and whirls made by flocks of starlings before they disappear.

## ENSURE® FOR STRENGTH AND ENERGY AND COMPLETE, BALANCED NUTRITION®
Blend of 30 grams With protein, Comfort fi ber blend of high-quality vitamins A & D, zinc, with a prebiotic to feed and calcium omega-3 ALA† to support muscles up to 7 hours to support brain health heart health and selenium support digestive health and growth of good bacteria

## VOLUME 247 NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC NUMBER 04
## C O N T E N T S
6 IN FOCUS | 14 CONTRIBUTORS
## 44 THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC 33
## 16 114 UNRAVELING THE SURVIVORS FROM MYSTERIES OF THE CONGO THE DINOSAUR AGE
## 40 42 108 COULD THIS REALLY BE HAWAII’S HOLY GRAIL? PRECIOUS SNAILS COLLECTIVE FLIGHT