
# The Global Risks Report 2025
# 20th Edition

## Acknowledgement

The Global Risks Report is produced exclusively by the World Economic Forum. We are grateful to our longstanding partners on previous editions, Marsh McLennan and Zurich Insurance Group. Their generous inputs and in-depth guidance have been invaluable over the last 20 years.

### Terms of use and disclaimer

This document is published by the World Economic Forum as a contribution to a project, insight area or interaction. The findings, interpretations and conclusions expressed herein are a result of a collaborative process facilitated and endorsed by the World Economic Forum but whose results do not necessarily represent the views of the World Economic Forum, nor the entirety of its Members, Partners or other stakeholders.

World Economic Forum All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, or otherwise without the prior permission of the World Economic Forum.

### Contents

#### Preface
#### Overview of methodology
#### Key findings

##### Chapter 1: Global Risks 2025: A world of growing divisions
##### 1.1 The world in 2025
##### 1.2 The path to 2027
##### 1.3 “Geopolitical recession”
##### 1.4 Supercharged economic tensions
##### 1.5 Technology and polarization
##### Endnotes

##### Chapter 2: Global Risks 2035: The point of no return
##### 2.1 The world in 2035
##### 2.2 Structural forces
##### 2.3 Pollution at a crossroads
##### 2.4 Losing control of biotech?
##### 2.5 Super-ageing societies
##### 2.6 Looking back: 20 years of the Global Risks Report
##### Endnotes

### Appendix A: Definitions and Global Risks List
### Appendix B: Global Risks Perception Survey 2024-2025
### Appendix C: Executive Opinion Survey: National Risk Perceptions
### Appendix D: Risk governance
### Partner Institutes
### Acknowledgements

## Preface

Economic risks have fallen in the rankings since last year, with inflation and the risk of an economic downturn no longer top of mind among decision-makers and experts. But there is no room for complacency: if the coming months see a spiral of tariffs and other trade-restricting measures globally, the economic consequences could be significant. Elevated valuations in several asset classes make them more vulnerable to these and other risks.

The multi-decade structural forces highlighted in last year’s Global Risks Report – technological acceleration, geostrategic shifts, climate change, and demographic bifurcation – and the interactions and polarization as leading short- to medium-term concerns, as well as pollution, biotech, and super-ageing as areas where serious risks could unfold over a longer-term time horizon. We also provide a retrospective view of the last two decades of assessing global risks.

This is the 20th edition of the Global Risks Report. Looking back over the last two decades, environmental risks have steadily consolidated their position as the greatest source of long-term concern. This year’s Global Risks Perception Survey shows that a sense of alarm is also mounting in the shorter term: Environmental problems, from extreme weather to pollution, are here now and the need to implement solutions is urgent.

Concerns about state-based armed conflict and geoeconomic confrontation have on average remained relatively high in the ranks over the last 20 years, with some variability. Today, geopolitical risk – and specifically the perception that conflicts could worsen or spread – tops the list of immediate-term concerns. Fear and uncertainty cloud the outlook in various parts of the world, including in Ukraine, the Middle East, and Sudan, with multilateral institutions struggling to provide effective mediation and work towards resolutions.

Societal risks such as inequality rank high among today’s leading concerns as well as over the last years. Polarization within societies is further hardening views and affecting policy-making. It also continues to fan the flames of misinformation and disinformation, which, for the second year running, is the top-ranked short- to medium-term concern across all risk categories.

More broadly, technological risks, while not seen as immediate, rise in the rankings for the 10-year time horizon, given the rapid pace of change in area