
# 人工智能的现状：组织如何重新布线以获取价值（英）-麦肯锡-2025.3-26页

## The state of AI
How organizations are rewiring to capture value

## Alex Singla
Alexander Sukharevsky
## Lareina Yee
## Michael Chui
## Bryce Hall
## March 2025

Organizations are beginning to create the structures and processes that lead to meaningful value from gen AI. While still in early days, companies are redesigning workflows, elevating governance, and mitigating more risks.

Organizations are starting to make organizational changes designed to generate future value from gen AI, and large companies are leading the way. The latest McKinsey Global Survey on AI finds that organizations are beginning to take steps that drive bottom-line impact—for example, redesigning workflows as they deploy gen AI and putting senior leaders in critical roles, such as overseeing AI governance. The findings also show that organizations are working to mitigate a growing set of gen-AI-related risks and are hiring for new AI-related roles while they retrain employees to participate in AI deployment. Companies with at least $500 million in annual revenue are changing more quickly than smaller organizations. Overall, the use of AI—that is, gen AI as well as analytical AI—continues to build momentum: More than three-quarters of respondents now say that their organizations use AI in at least one business function. The use of gen AI in particular is rapidly increasing.

## How companies are organizing their gen AI deployment—and who’s in charge

Our survey analyses show that a CEO’s oversight of AI governance—that is, the policies, processes, and technology necessary to develop and deploy AI systems responsibly—is one element most correlated with higher self-reported bottom-line impact from an organization’s gen AI use. That’s particularly true at larger companies, where CEO oversight is the element with the most impact on EBIT attributable to gen AI. Twenty-eight percent of respondents whose organizations use AI report that their CEO is responsible for overseeing AI governance, though the share is smaller at larger organizations with $500 million or more in annual revenues, and 17 percent say AI governance is overseen by their board of directors. In many cases, AI governance is jointly owned: On average, respondents report that two leaders are in charge.

The value of AI comes from rewiring how companies run, and the latest survey shows that, out of 25 attributes tested for organizations of all sizes, the redesign of workflows has the biggest effect on an organization’s ability to see EBIT impact from its use of gen AI. Organizations are beginning to reshape their workflows as they deploy gen AI. Twenty-one percent of respondents reporting gen AI use by their organizations say their organizations have fundamentally redesigned at least some workflows.

## McKinsey commentary

Alexander Sukharevsky
Senior partner and global coleader of QuantumBlack, AI by McKinsey

The more we see organizations using AI, the more we recognize that it takes a top-down process to really move the needle. Effective AI implementation starts with a fully committed C-suite and, ideally, an engaged board. Many companies’ instinct is to delegate implementation to the IT or digital department, but over and over again, this turns out to be a recipe for failure.

There are several reasons for this. The first is that getting real value out of AI requires transformation, not just new technology. It’s a question of successful change management and mobilization, which is why C-suite leadership is essential. It’s also a potentially expensive transformation, requiring intensive use of sometimes scarce resources and talent. A lot rides on how those resources are made available, and that’s an executive-level call requiring nuanced decision-making that reflects the balance organizations must strike between efficient resource use and broad empowerment—a balance that must be constantly reevaluated as the technology and organization evolve.

As organizations become more fluent with AI, it will essentially become embedded in all functions, leaving leadership to focus on higher-level tasks like impact monitoring and talent development rather than on implementation.

## Organizations are selectively centralizing elements of their AI deployment

The survey findings also shed light on how organizations are structuring their AI deployment efforts. Some essential elements for deploying AI tend to be fully or partially centralized. For risk and compliance, as well as data governance, organizations often use a fully centralized model such as a center of excellence. For tech talent and adoption of AI solutions, on the other hand, respondents most often report using a hybrid or partially centralized model, with some resources handled centrally and others distributed across the organization.