
# The Global Risks Report 2025
## 20th Edition
I N S I G H T R E P O R T

January 2025 The Global Risks Report 2025

## Acknowledgement
The Global Risks Report is produced exclusively by the World Economic Forum. We are grateful to our longstanding partners on previous editions, Marsh McLennan and Zurich Insurance Group. Their generous inputs and in-depth guidance have been invaluable over the last 20 years.

Terms of use and disclaimer
This document is published by the World Economic Forum as a contribution to a project, insight area or interaction. The findings, interpretations and conclusions expressed herein are a result of a collaborative process facilitated and endorsed by the World Economic Forum but whose results do not necessarily represent the views of the World Economic Forum, nor the entirety of its Members, Partners or other stakeholders.

World Economic Forum All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, or otherwise without the prior permission of the World Economic Forum.

CH-1223 Cologny/Geneva, Switzerland
Tel.: +41 (0)22 869 1212
Fax: +41 (0)22 786 2744
E-mail: contact@weforum.org
ISBN: 978-2-940631-30-8
## www.weforum.org

The report and an interactive data platform are Copyright © 2025 by the World Economic Forum global-risks-report-2025.
available at https://www.weforum.org/publications/
by the World Economic Forum.

## Contents
## Preface 4
Overview of methodology 5
## Key findings 6
Chapter 1: Global Risks 2025: A world of growing divisions 13
## 1.1 The world in 2025 13
## 1.2 The path to 2027 15
## 1.3 “Geopolitical recession” 20
## 1.4 Supercharged economic tensions 28
## 1.5 Technology and polarization 34
## Endnotes 40
Chapter 2: Global Risks 2035: The point of no return 43
## 2.1 The world in 2035 43
## 2.2 Structural forces 47
## 2.3 Pollution at a crossroads 48
## 2.4 Losing control of biotech? 53
## 2.5 Super-ageing societies 60
## 2.6 Looking back: 20 years of the Global Risks Report 66
## Endnotes 70
Appendix A: Definitions and Global Risks List 74
Appendix B: Global Risks Perception Survey 2024-2025 77
Appendix C: Executive Opinion Survey: National Risk Perceptions 80
Appendix D: Risk governance 91
Partner Institutes 96
Acknowledgements 102

## Preface
Economic risks have fallen in the rankings since last year, with inflation and the risk of an economic downturn no longer top of mind among decision-makers and experts. But there is no room for complacency: if the coming months see a spiral of tariffs and other trade-restricting measures globally, the economic consequences could be significant. Elevated valuations in several asset classes make them more vulnerable to these and other risks.

The multi-decade structural forces highlighted in last year’s Global Risks Report – technological acceleration, geostrategic shifts, climate change and demographic bifurcation – and the interactions and polarization as leading short- to medium-term concerns, as well as pollution, biotech and super-ageing societies as areas where serious risks could unfold over a longer-term time horizon. We also provide a retrospective view of the last two decades of assessing global risks. Twenty years ago, when we were preparing our first Global Risks Report, the world was in a different place. Risks that have been well managed and mitigated since then were where the concerted and collective efforts of multistakeholder leaders helped to build common ground, compromises and mutually acceptable solutions. It will be up to visionary leaders to involve all key stakeholders to address the risks now foreseen for the next decade and to build durable peace and prosperity.

This is the 20th edition of the Global Risks Report. Looking back over the last two decades, environmental risks have steadily consolidated their position as the greatest source of long-term concern. This year’s Global Risks Perception Survey shows that a sense of alarm is also mounting in the shorter term: Environmental problems, from extreme weather to pollution, are here now and the need to implement solutions is urgent.

Concerns about state-based armed conflict and geoeconomic confrontation have on average remained relatively high in the ranks over the last 20 years, with some variability. Today, geopolitical risk – and specifically the perception that conflicts could worsen or spread – tops the list of immediate-term concerns. Fear and uncertainty cloud the outlook in various parts of the world, including in Ukraine, the Middle East, and Sudan, with multilateral institutions struggling to provide effective mediation and work towards resolutions. The world has changed profoundly over the last 20 years and will continue to do so in unpredictable ways. But foresight based on informed, expert views remains critical for better planning and preparation, both in the short and long term. The 20th Global Risks Report continues to shine a light on globally relevant risks that are often complex and sometimes alarming. Yet, in examining the trajectory of the risks foreseen over the last two decades, it is clear that there is no viable alternative to multilateral solutions going forward. Leaders across the public and private sectors, civil society, international organizations and academia must seize the baton to work openly and constructively with each other. By deepening honest dialogue and acting urgently to mitigate the risks that are now foreseen for the next decade, we can build durable peace and prosperity.