
# 麦肯锡-工作场所的超级代理：赋予人们释放人工智能全部潜力的能力（英）-2025.1

## Contents
## Introduction
## Chapters:
1. An innovation as powerful as the steam engine
2. Employees are ready for AI; now leaders must step up
3. Delivering speed and safety
4. Embracing bigger ambitions
5. Technology is not the barrier to scale
Conclusion: Meeting the AI future
## Acknowledgments
## Methodology
## Glossary

## Introduction
Almost all companies invest in AI, but just 1 percent believe they are at maturity. Our research finds the biggest barrier to scaling is not employees—who are ready—but leaders, who are not steering fast enough.
Artificial intelligence has arrived in the workplace and has the potential to be as transformative as the steam engine was to the 19th-century Industrial Revolution. With powerful and capable large language models (LLMs) developed by Anthropic, Cohere, Google, Meta, Mistral, OpenAI, and others, we have entered a new information technology era. McKinsey research sizes the long-term AI opportunity at $4.4 trillion in added productivity growth potential from corporate use cases. Therein lies the challenge: the long-term potential of AI is great, but the short-term returns are unclear. Over the next three years, 92 percent of companies plan to increase their AI investments. But while nearly all companies are investing in AI, only 1 percent of leaders call their companies “mature” on the deployment spectrum, meaning that AI is fully integrated into workflows and drives substantial business outcomes. The big question is how business leaders can deploy capital and steer their organizations closer to AI maturity. This research report, prompted by Reid Hoffman’s book Superagency: What Could Possibly Go Right with Our AI Future, asks a similar question: How can companies harness AI to amplify human agency and unlock new levels of creativity and productivity in the workplace? AI could drive enormous positive and disruptive change. This transformation will take some time, but leaders must not be dissuaded. Instead, they must advance boldly today to avoid becoming uncompetitive tomorrow. The history of major economic and technological shifts shows that such moments can define the rise and fall of companies. Over 40 years ago, the internet was born. Since then, companies including Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Meta, and Microsoft have attained trillion-dollar market capitalizations. Even more profoundly, the internet changed the anatomy of work and access to information. AI now is like the internet many years ago: The risk for business leaders is not thinking too big, but rather too small.

## Superagency: By the numbers
Employees are more ready for the change than their leaders imagine
## 3× 1.4×
more employees are using gen AI more likely for millennials to report
for a third or more of their work extensive familiarity with gen AI tools
than their leaders imagine; than peers in other age groups;
more than 70% of all employees they are also 1.2× more
believe that within 2 years gen AI will likely to expect workflows
change 30% or more of their work to change within a year
Companies need to move fast—employees trust their
leaders to balance speed and safety
of the C-suite say their companies are more likely for employees to trust their
## 47% 1.3×
developing gen AI tools too slowly, even though own companies to get gen AI deployment right
69% started investing more than a year ago than they are to trust other institutions
Companies are investing in gen AI but have not yet achieved maturity
## 92% 1%
of companies plan believe their
to invest more investments have
in gen AI over the reached maturity
## next 3 years
Leaders need to recognize their responsibility in driving gen AI transformation
## 2.4× 48%
more likely for C-suite to cite employee readiness as of employees rank training as the
a barrier to adoption vs their own issues with leadership most important factor for gen AI adoption;
alignment, despite employees currently using yet nearly half feel they are receiving
gen AI 3× more than leaders expect moderate or less support
Superagency in the workplace: Empowering people to unlock AI’s full potential 3

## About the survey
To create our report, we surveyed 3,613 employees (managers and independent contributors) and 238 C-level executives in October and November 2024. Of these, 81 percent came from the United States, and the rest came from five other countries: Australia, India, New Zealand, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. The employees spanned many roles, including business development, finance, marketing, product management, sales, and technology.
All the survey findings discussed in the report, aside from two sidebars presenting international nuances, pertain solely to US workplaces. The findings are