
# 2025斯坦福新兴技术评论：十项关键技术及其政策影响的报告（英）

## CO-CHAIRS
Condoleezza Rice
John B. Taylor
Jennifer Widom
Amy Zegart
DIRECTOR AND EDITOR IN CHIEF
Herbert S. Lin
MANAGING EDITOR
Martin Giles
Stanford University
Stanford, California

## CONTENTS
FOREWORD 4 01 Artificial Intelligence 21
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 10 02 Biotechnology and Synthetic Biology 39
INTRODUCTION 18
03 Cryptography 53
The Role of Science and Technology in Advancing National Interests 18
04 Lasers 65
Policy for Science and Technology 19
Ten Science and Technology Fields 19 05 Materials Science 77
06 Neuroscience 91
07 Robotics 103
08 Semiconductors 115
09 Space 127
10 Sustainable Energy Technologies 141

11 Crosscutting Themes and 12 Technology Applications by Commonalities 156 Policy Area 174
Key Observations About How Technologies Evolve over Time 157
National Security 176
Common Innovation Enablers and Inhibitors 164
Environmental and Energy Sustainability 177
Health and Medicine 179
Civil Society 180
CONCLUSION 182
LEADERSHIP 184
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 188

## FOREWORD
In every era, technological discoveries bring both promise and risk. Rarely, however, has the world experienced technological change at the speed and scale we see today. From nanomaterials that are fifty thousand times smaller than the width of a human hair to commercial satellites and other private-sector technologies deployed in outer space, breakthroughs are rapidly reshaping markets, societies, and geopolitics. What’s more, US technology policy isn’t the unique province of government like it used to be. Instead, inventors and investors are making decisions with enormous policy consequences, even if they may not always realize it. Artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms are imbued with policy choices about which outcomes are desired and which are not. Nearly every new technology, from bioengineering new medicines to building underwater research drones, has both commercial and military applications. Private-sector investment, too, simultaneously generates both national advantages and vulnerabilities by developing new capabilities, supply chains, and dependencies and by pursuing commercial opportunities that may not serve long-term national interests. While engineers and executives need to better understand the policy world, government leaders need to better understand the engineering and business worlds. Otherwise, public policies intended to protect against societal harms may end up accelerating them, and efforts to align innovation with the national interest could end up harming that interest by dampening America’s innovation leadership and the geopolitical advantages that come with it. In these complex times, the only certainties are that uncertainty is rampant and the stakes are high: Decisions made today in boardrooms, labs, and workspaces will shape the United States and the world for years to come. Now more than ever, understanding the landscape of discovery and how to harness technology to forge a better future requires working across sectors, fields, and generations. Universities like Stanford have a vital role to play in this effort. In 2023, we launched the Stanford Emerging Technology Review (SETR), the first-ever collaboration between Stanford University’s School of Engineering and the Hoover Institution. Our goal is ambitious: transforming technology education for decision-makers in both the public and private sectors so that the United States can seize opportunities, mitigate risks, and ensure the American innovation ecosystem continues to thrive. This is our latest report surveying the state of ten key emerging technologies and their implications. It harnesses the expertise of leading faculty in science and engineering fields, economics, international relations, and history to identify key technological developments, assess potential implications, and highlight what policymakers should know. While engineers and executives need to better understand the policy world, government leaders need to better understand the engineering and business worlds. Otherwise, public policies intended to protect against societal harms may end up accelerating them, and efforts to align innovation with the national interest could end up harming that interest by dampening America’s innovation leadership and the geopolitical advantages that come with it. In these complex times, the only certainties are that uncertainty is rampant and the stakes are high: Decisions made today in boardrooms, labs, and workspaces will shape the United States and the world for years to come. Now more than ever, understanding the landscape of discovery and how to harness technology to forge a better future requires working across sectors, fields, and generations. Universities like Stanford have a vital role to play in this effort. In 2023, we launched the Stanford Emerging Technology Review (SETR), the first-ever collaboration between Stanford University’s School of Engineering and the Hoover Institution. Our goal is ambitious: transforming technology education for decision-makers in both the public and private sectors so that the United States can seize opportunities, mitigate risks, and ensure the American innovation ecosystem continues to thrive.