
# 洪灝：道与中国市场投机艺术（重译版）

## 前言
预测之道，在于易变。时隔十载，上证指数终于再度叩开那久违的整数关口。在近期的市场分析中，我依然选择以《易经》卦象为蓍龟，试图窥见未来市场的幽微。然而，在与读者的交流中，我察觉到不少人对这部古代哲学经典仍有郢书燕解之误。今年俗务鞅掌，变数频生，我竟无暇秉笔将这些多年沉淀下来的预测之法与交易要诀系统整理。原版翻译以文言为主，略显晦涩，曾记否，有碍读者理解。今把原文重新翻译，并将中英文版同时呈现。去年量化巨震后，我曾在此文以《易经》为经纬，既阐释市场预测的要义，又预测了那场风暴后形成的市场底部。回首来路，彼时股指尚在二千六百点间踯躅。而今星霜荏苒，我们似乎又将要展开新的篇章。

## —— 要点 ——
Market illiquidity that has been a source of microcaps alpha turned into the stem of volatility. In the end, not everyone could be bailed out or worthy of it. Chinese sentiment towards uncertainty suggests that any potential source of volatily would be frown upon and heavily regulated. The six negative candlesticks during the quant-quake resemble the “K’un” hexagram in the I-Ching. This hexagram suggested being pliable and prudent during the plunge, and a reversal of trends. It is prescient. Now property remains the overhang. Change is the immutable Tao. Forecasting is to recognize subtle changes in their germinal state to shape the outcome of the future. And so, we are not blindly accepting our fate, but taking charge of our destiny.

## 正文
In late January, just before the Year of the Dragon, China markets plunged. Some dubbed it China’s “quant-quake”, as structured financial products with embedded put options kicked in, and quant funds struggled to re-balance in a vicious downward spiral. It was one of the darkest episodes in the Chinese market. In reality, it was the vicissitudes of the market-neutral strategies, the utter collapse of the “snowballs” and the abrupt changes in regulatory rules that together germinated a perfect storm. Each element in its own right was apposite, yet together in the unfolding conditions of statu nascendi, they ended up roiling the market, generating unfathomable losses with probability of occurrence of ~1 to 1,000,000,000, or about once in two million years. It should never have happened.

In this piece, we refer to the autochthonous wisdom encrypted in the I-Ching, or the Book of Changes, from the Yellow-River Culture that originated 5,000 years ago. We are not trying to play the ghost or the devil, but the I-Ching is a foundational text for two of China’s dominant schools of philosophy, the Taoist, and the Confucianism. Till today, Taoism and Confucianism still guide the everyday life in China, with Confucianism governing a harmonious society on hierarchy in which the Chinese practices Taoism to wield balance with the exogeneous world. Our own proprietary theory and models of economic cycle are in part developed based on the principles of the “Ch’ien 乾卦” trigram in the I-Ching. In this report, we focus on the “Tao 道“ of the I-Ching, drawing the metaphysics and dualism views from this Chinese classics.

“Hoarfrost Underfoot” 初六：履霜，冰将至
The I-Ching is a book recording a sacred ritual of our ancestors from primordial times throwing yarrow stalks and divining the future. The eight trigrams formed by a combination of six whole or broken lines are conceived as heaven and earth, and everything between them. Over the centuries, hairsplitting cabalistic suppositions about how to interpret the trigrams have been shrouding the I-Ching with mysteries, leaving the book with a reputation of inscrutable profundity. Most consult with the l-Ching at difficult junctures for omens, auguries, and divinations. That however, is precisely what the |-Ching is not. The eight hexagrams indeed represent the transitional states that ae constantly shifting. From them, we learn to foresee the direction in which the future would evolve, as well as understanding the past.

The hexagrams recognize subtle changes in their germinal states, and thus an individual could shape his/her fate before a situation evolves into its full consequences overwhelming the individual who by then would be impotent and in vain. How to dissect China's recent “quant-quake” through the prism of the 1-Ching? In early January, lured by high dividend yields of the large-cap stocks and following the national team's lead of buying CSl 50/300 ETFs, large mutual funds in China started to cut exposures in small caps and rotated into large caps. Such selling, especially by large mutual funds while with all the good intentions to seek higher returns, mounted significant pressure on the small-cap indices such as CSl500/1000thatserved as the underlying indices for the snowballs” structured products. Fortunately, by mid-December 2024.we have cutdown our portfolio exposure to zero.

24 年 1 月初，受大盘股高股息收益的吸引，大公募大手笔买入沪深 50/300 ETF，并开始减少对小盘股的敞口。此类因换仓而导致的抛压，尤其是来自大公募，尽管是出于寻求更高回报的良好意愿，却给许多”雪球"结构产品的标的指数，如中证 500/1000 等小盘指数带来了巨大压力。值得一提的是，到 23 年 12 月中旬，我们已经将投资组合的风险敞口降至零。

图 1.通过《易经》坤卦视角看六天的量化地震
These snowballs’ payoff resembles selling a put-the buyer collects a steady and attractive yield should the market remain largely steady, but starts to lose money if the market plunges below the lower strike price, as it happened between Jan8 and 26. lt would mean a complete wipe out of the investor capital if leverage is employed. Meanwhile, market-neutral strategies have been delivering consistent returns in the past few years. These strategies tend to long a portfolio of small and microcaps, while shorting the index futures to achieve “market neutral” exposure. Their return is the alpha from the long portfolio of small and microcaps less basis difference (hedging cost.)

As small and microcaps fell, these strategies started to suffer losses on the long side but profiting from the expanding futures basis hedging costs). By then, these negative strategies were motivated to close their positions and take profits. There was only one problem - selling restrictions were abruptly placed on some of the DMAs without advance notice. As the large market neutral funds continued to close their positions the pressure on the microcaps mount. But the "national team” was busy buying large caps to save the large-cap indices. And the trading restrictions accelerated selling by the funds who could still trade to get out of their positions. By early February, a liquidity crisis was in full view.

The “national team” then extended its buying to small-cap indices such as CSl500 till all the snowballs were exercised. The pressure on CSl 50Cand 1000 was then lifted. But the rally in these indi
